-=[ ictk ]=- Internet Chess Toolkit

HACKING - contributing to the ictk project
-------


CODING STYLE
------------

When I contribute a patch to your project I'll do it your way.  If you want 
me to accept your patch you'll follow mine.

Indents: I use 3-spaces indent.  I have vi set shiftwidth=3.  I also have 
autoindent set on.  This might make the code look wierd on your screen but 
it looks fine on mine.

K&R hitchcocks: I use curly braces (hitchcocks) on the same line as the 'if'
and the 'else', 'try' and 'catch', and also on the same line as the function.
I also keep the open and closing hitchcock for the 'if' on a different lin
from the 'else'.  For example:
    if ( ) {
    }
    else {
    }

Function & Variable names: should follow Java recommended standards.

Screen width: I use an 80-char wide xterm.  Old-school, I know.  Please,
cut your lines to fit this standard.

Internal Classes: I use these rarely.  Normally I promote them to full fledged
classes.  If it's internal there better be a good reason.

Imports: I use import statements not java.lang.String.  The latter makes
the lines too long and in general just looks ugly.

For everything else just look at the code and do what I do.


PACKAGES
--------

If you're writing a variant of an already existing game make sure its 
package goes in a subdirectory of the main game.  So if you were to add
CrazyHouse to ictk you should put in under /ictk/boardgame/chess/crazyhouse.


ICS EVENTS
----------
Most ICS event code is generated from XML through a XSTL translator against
a template.  There are very few exceptions to this (style12 and movelist to 
name just 2).  Submitting changes to the Java code for the generated files
is okay, but it's prefered that you submit a change for the XML instead, or
at least a change that doesn't necessitate changing the template.


DOCUMENTATION
-------------

As you can see almost all my methods have JavaDoc headers.  Yours should too.


CVS
---

Check the CVS for newer versions before you start patching something.  You
can contact me before you start your patch to find out if I've a newer
version on my harddrive that I haven't checked in yet (pleasure of the sole
developer).

The build file has targets that will help you out. "cvs" can be used to
export a version of the distribution to the ./release directory.  You can
specify the release version by using cvs.tag on the command line.

   $ ant -Dcvs.tag=HEAD cvs

This will retrieve the latest and greatest (read unstable) version of all files.
For this you can use the public CVS or the developers' CVS.  The latter is often
more current (to the minute).  By default the public CVS is used, but if you'd
like to use the developers' just specify your sourceforge userid on the command
line like this:

   $ ant -Dcvs.login=<sf_userid> cvs


Best of luck to you.

---
Last Updated: 2003-09-30 by jvarsoke
